.TH thumbnailer\-settings 5 "5 August 2015" "Ubuntu" "Linux User's Manual"

.SH NAME
thumbnailer\-settings \- Configuration settings for \fBthumbnailer\-service\fP(1).

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBthumbnailer\-service\fP program uses \fBdconf\fP(7) for its configuration.
Configuration values are read once only, on start\-up of the service.
.P
The following settings are used:
.TP
.B dash\-ubuntu\-com\-key \fR(string)\fP
The API key for the remote artwork service.
.TP
.B full\-size\-cache\-size \fR(int)\fP
The size (in megabytes) of the image cache that stores original artwork.
The default is 50 MB.
.TP
.B thumbnail\-size\-cache\-size \fR(int)\fP
The size (in megabytes) of the thumbnail cache that stores scaled thumbnails.
The default is 100 MB.
.TP
.B thumbnail\-size\-cache\-size \fR(int)\fP
The size (in megabytes) of the failure cache that stores media keys for media without an image.
The default is 2 MB.
.TP
.B max\-thumbnail\-size \fR(int)\fP
Requests for thumbnails larger than this will automatically reduce the thumbnail to \fBmax\-thumbnail\-size\fP
(in pixels) in the larger dimension. Requests for thumbnails with size zero are interpreted as requests
for \fBmax\-thumbnail\-size\fP.
The default is 1920 pixels.
.TP
.B retry\-not\-found\-hours \fR(int)\fP
If artwork cannot be retrieved because the remote server authoritavely confirmed that no artwork exists for
an artist or album, this parameter defines how long the thumbnailer waits before trying to download
the same image again.
The default is 168 hours (one week).
.TP
.B retry\-error\-hours \fR(int)\fP
If artwork cannot be retrieved from the remote server due to an unexpected error (such as the server not
responding), this parameter defines how long the thumbnailer waits before trying to contact the server
again (for any image).
The default is two hours.
.TP
.B max\-downloads \fR(int)\fP
Controls the maximum number of concurrent downloads for remote artwork.
The default value is 2.
.TP
.B max\-extractions \fR(int)\fP
Controls the maximum number of concurrent image extractions from local media files.
The default value is zero, which sets the value according to the number of CPU cores.
.TP
.B max\-extraction\-timeout \fR(int)\fP
Sets the amount of time (in seconds) to wait for a remote image download or
a thumbnail extraction before giving up.
The default is 10 seconds.
.TP
.B max\-backlog \fR(int)\fP
Controls the number of DBus requests that will be sent before queueing the requests internally.
The default is 20 requests.
.TP
.B trace\-client \fR(bool)\fP
If true, thumbnail and cancel requests are logged. Log messages are written to the calling application's log
via \fBqdebug\fP().
The default value is false.

.SH FILES
/usr/share/glib\-2.0/schemas/com.canonical.Unity.Thumbnailer.gschema.xml

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B thumbnailer\-service\fR(1)\fP, dconf\fR(7)\fP, gsettings\fR(1)\fP
